Dogfight Training - Raptor 101 - 1. Settings and Keybinds - YouTube
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EhL359B8w_g

Transcript:
(00:01) [Music] Hello everyone. Welcome to Raptor 101, a training course designed to teach iron point pilots the basics of competitive dog fighting in Star Citizen. My name is Kazuka and in this video we're going to be quickly going over settings and key bindings. Star Citizen has a lot of different options and it's often not clear what they do or how they impact your gameplay experience.
(00:41) Our goal is to minimize or eliminate anything that might interfere with your concentration in a fight and ensure you're not putting yourself at a disadvantage. Make sure to follow along and adjust your settings as we go through the options. First off, we're going to get rid of all of these cinematic cameras, vibration, and camera spring movement.
(01:00) We don't want any of those to be turned on. All of these here, ship entry labels, subtitles, etc. are optional. None of that matters. We're going to scroll down and we're going to make sure our crosshair mode is set to always on and that your opacity is at 100. Scrolling down even further, we get to our ship defaults.
(01:20) Automatic slowdown. Make sure that's set to no. That's uh the 30ms landing toggle. Decoupled mode, make sure this is set to no. Or if you're leaving it at yes, like me, make sure you've got a key bind that you can use to turn it off. I only leave it on so that I don't accidentally crash into my hanger when I first jump into the PU.
(01:41) Uh ESP, we're going to go into this later. This is enhanced stick precision. Make sure that this is set to yes. Gravity compensation really doesn't matter. Um G-Safe, make sure this is set to no. We never want G-Safe to be on. We never want to be G limited. Definitely no. And boost disables G-Safe. Set that to yes.
(02:01) But it shouldn't ever matter because we've got G-safe turned off anyway. Cruise mode, no. Space brake enables boost, no. There might be times in decoupled mode where we want to hold down our space break to remain completely stationary. Um, let's say we're staring at the hatch of a ship that we're trying to pirate, for example, and we don't want to be draining our boost bar while we're doing that. Speed limiter, no.
(02:21) Proximity assist, definitely not. This will mess you up in a knife fight if you've got this turned on. And then we get to advanced hood. I would highly recommend you use the advanced hood. It's got lots of extra information that it presents that's really useful. And I personally think the information is positioned in a way that it's more readable and uh accessible in the middle of a dog fight.
(02:43) Okay, so scrolling down a little bit further. Next up, we're going to get to ESP. Um, you might spend quite a long time tweaking your ESP settings. Um, the general gist is that strength reduces the sensitivity of your crosshair once it's actually over the pip when you're shooting at a target and curvature is the the radius at which the crosshair starts to slow down.
(03:09) So, most people would recommend that you leave the strength at one and that you actually set the curvature to zero. Um, I play with quite a lot of curvature. I play with.3. That's quite unusual. Most competitive pilots play with none at all. So, I would recommend you start with zero and see how that feels for you.
(03:28) So, for VJoy visibility, we're going to turn that to always visible. I personally use it only with mouse input, but that's because I fly with joystick most of the time. I will set it to always visible and see how you get on. Then, we got our Vjoy range. Uh, in terms of your and pitch, you want to find a value that works for you, but I would recommend somewhere between four and seven.
(03:51) And that's going to depend on your mouse sensitivity and what feels good for you. Um, but you're going to start probably somewhere around seven and see how that goes. And then mouse uh dead zone, set that to zero. Um, then going down a little bit further, we get to uh weapons and velocity indicator. So velocity indicator, we want to be always on.
(04:15) That's sometimes called the TVI. Um, that's the little circle with three little lines coming out of it that shows you which way your ship is traveling. We really want to see that because there will be times where in decoupled mode, our ship is traveling in one direction and our nose is pointing in another, and we want to know where our ship is traveling. Um, VJOY settings.
(04:35) Uh, for driver, we're going to skip past. Um, turrets, we're going to do another time. And then we want to make sure we've got magnified UI turned off. We want to make sure precision lines are on, staggered fire is set to no, lag pips are set to no. I wouldn't recommend using lag pips by default. You're going to be using lead pips most of the time.
(04:58) Lag pips can be a useful training tool, but they're not what you're going to be learning to fly with most of the time. Um, individual pips, you can set this to yes if you want. That will let you know um if all of your guns are working. I personally only use one single pip. I find it's just a bit cleaner, but this is personal preference.
(05:16) You can set this to yes if you want to. And make sure fading pips are set to no. We don't want our pips to fade out. Um, then we come down a little bit further and we've got target locked heading, distance, and name. We want all of those set to be yes. We want to be able to see all of that stuff.
(05:38) And then we're now going to turn off all of our look ahead nonsense. Um, pilot look ahead enabled, no. Uh, and look ahead strength. We're going to turn this down. This is going to reduce and remove all of the artificial uh, actor head movement while you're in the cockpit. So, make sure all of this is set to zero. Any look ahead sliders, just get rid of them.
(05:58) Then we've got more camera shake down here. So, GeForce induced head movement, after burner zoom, and global camera shake. Turn all of that to zero. We don't want any of that on. We're going to be constantly after burning and be at maximum G's most of the time we're in a dog fight. So, we don't want to have loads of weird shake happening while we're doing that.
(06:15) Um, party name plates, name plate distance, contact names, make sure all of this is set to yes. We want to be able to see all of that information. Um, emission hood values, I would recommend you set that to yes. That will allow you to see how far away your ship can be target locked based on how high your IRM and cross-section signatures are.
(06:36) It's very useful when you're uh stealthily hunting a target such as um a vulture that you might be trying to pirate. Uh, and it will give you a good indication of how far away you can be seen by uh hostiles or at least target locked by hostiles. Um, and that's it for game settings. So, now we're going to jump over to graphics.
(06:56) There's a lot more stuff that's personal preference here. Something to highlight is that um, Star Citizen doesn't seem to really see a big performance increase when you set the graphics to low quality. It seems to increase the CPU CPU load and the game's already very CPU heavy. So, have a play around with that.
(07:13) You might find that if you've got a lower-end PC, you don't actually see any benefit from being in low. um field of view. Uh I would recommend you set this as high as it feels comfortable for you because that will expand how much you can see out the sides of your cockpit. You want to be able to see as much as possible, but at the same time, um it's a bit like a wide-angle camera lens when you've got it all the way out to 116.
(07:36) That's going to reduce the size of the object in the center of your screen. Uh, so I actually like to leave it at 105, which I find is a nice balance between um visibility and also not making things in the middle of my screen too small, but that's really personal preference. Motion blur set to no, VSYNC set to no.
(07:55) VSYNC doesn't work very well in Star Citizen. Um, and then all of these things you can set as your preference. I would personally recommend turning chromatic aberration off and also film grain just to get rid of any visual noise on the screen. Uh, and finally, we also have to go to audio. Uh, CI loves camera shake so much they put an extra camera shake slider in the audio menu.
(08:18) So, make sure your audiodriven camera shake is also set to zero. Now, we're going to come on to key bindings. And um, key bindings are really very personal to you and your setup. I'm not going to tell you what to bind where, but I do want to quickly highlight some important functions and principles.
(08:39) It's entirely possible to be competitive on almost any kind of setup. And actually, many of the top players in the game do use keyboard and mouse, so don't worry about needing to buy expensive hardware. Um, your goal is to make sure that you can quickly activate critical functions without the need to reposition your hands.
(08:55) So, I'm going to cover what some of those critical functions are and what sort of things you should be binding in a way that means that they're very easy to press. Um, the first and most obvious thing, which I'm not going to spend too much time talking about, is your weapons. You should be able to shoot your weapons very easily.
(09:14) So, that's needs to be on mouse button one or a trigger or something. So, weapons very important. You're going to be shooting those a lot. Needs to be very easy to press. Um, the first actually um slightly less obvious thing that we really need to make sure is bound comfortably is boost. Boost is incredibly important.
(09:31) You're constantly going to be boosting in a dog fight, so you really want your boost button to be easily pressable. You're going to be pressing it a lot, sometimes holding it down almost the whole duration of a fight. So, make sure that button is really easy and comfortable for you to press. Um, next up, going down the list, we've got mode cycling.
(09:53) Um, so, uh, cycle master mode here, uh, will allow you to switch between SCM and M nav mode. You'll quickly want to be able to swap to nav mode in the heat of a fight. You will find that you might need to uh nav and run away to avoid damage. So, you want that to be easily pressable. You don't want to have to scrabble around looking for your cycle mode button.
(10:12) You want to be able to easily press it without having to think about it. Okay. So, when it comes to targeting, you want to be able to easily select a target in the heat of the moment. So it's very important that you can easily target things and that means you will get pips for them. It will means you get delta information.
(10:31) You need to be targeting the thing you're shooting at. The target keybind I find myself using the most is cycle lock in view under reticle. That's because most of the time the thing you're going to want to shoot at is the thing you're going to want to target. And the thing you want to shoot at is most often already under your crosshairs or at least you'll be looking at it.
(10:52) So, that's the one I would recommend binding. And then, if you've got spare hat switches or spare buttons on your mouse or other things you can easily bind, you might consider some of these other options to suit you. Then we scroll down a little bit further and we've got a nice one here, which is uh the scamping.
(11:11) The scamping you will actually be pressing a lot in a fight. Um, what tends to happen is when you're not, uh, looking at a contact and you're not having it on your screen, um, it will actually vanish. And so, you need to be constantly pushing the activate ping button to keep contacts visible. And that includes friendly contacts as well as hostile contacts.
(11:31) And when you're on the PU, it will also be the tool that you use to constantly hunt for targets. you'll see little um pixelated boxes appear when your scan ping has detected the cross-section of a hostile ship, and you'll often see that before you'll actually be able to target them.
(11:49) So, it's a good tool for hunting down targets as well. Um, but you'll also want to be constantly pressing this to make sure you keep track of where your friends are. So, make sure that's easy to press. Coming down a little bit further, um, we're going to get to uh counter measures, shields, and counter measures.
(12:05) It's very important that you can press these easily. First, we've got decoys, which you'll often hear referred to as flares. Uh, this is how you would dodge missiles. So, you want to be able to deploy decoys uh once you've got incoming missiles. Um, but a lesser known thing about this that you might want to know is that you can group decoys together.
(12:24) So, you'll often need to group three or four decoys and fire them at once to flare off bigger missiles. or if you're flying a bigger ship with a higher signature radius, whether that's heat signature or EM signature. Um, depending on how laggy the PU is, um, what you're being shot at or what you're being shot by, uh, you might need a group of three, four, or even more decoys.
(12:45) So, I definitely recommend having a bind here so you can group them together easily. The most important thing though is that you can press the launch decoy button without having to think about it. That should be a very easy button press so you can push it in the uh heat of the moment. Next up, we got noise.
(13:01) Uh sometimes referred to as chaff. Noise is the big smoke cloud that pops out the back of your ship. What this actually does is it prevents you from being target locked by other players. So, while you're in the cloud, people won't be able to lock onto you. Um it doesn't work uh if you fly out of the cloud and it doesn't stop missiles from coming in at you if they've already been fired.
(13:21) So, keep that in mind. But you're most likely going to be popping this as you turn to run away. So you might deploy noise and then activate nav mode to disengage from a fight. But make sure this button is very easily pushable. You want to be able to push it without thinking. And finally, we're going to come down and we're going to talk about power.
(13:43) Um what we want to make sure is that you can easily set your max power to engine shields and weapons very easily. Um, power management has changed a lot over the history of Star Citizen. In its current iteration, it's not vital to have power settings at your fingertips because most ships have so much power you can just set the set the power settings and then forget about them.
(14:04) But that's not always been the case and it might not be the case in the future. So, if you've got extra hat switches, I would recommend being able to set power to engines, shields, and weapons at the push of a button so that if they do bring back power management gameplay, that's something you can do. Um, and power settings also have a tendency to reset midfight.
(14:21) So having them as an easily accessible keybind will allow you to quickly put max power back to each of those if you need to. So to summarize, when it comes to key bindings, the most important thing is that boost, mode switching, targeting, scan pinging, flares, and power management should all be easily accessible and usable with extremely minimal hand movement as you'll need to press them in the heat of the moment.
(14:53) That's it for training on settings and keybinds. I look forward to seeing you in practice.

Dogfight Training - Raptor 101 - 2. Basic Flight Mechanics - YouTube
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K_ECxDxXwqY

Transcript:
(00:01) [Music] Hello everyone. Welcome to Raptor 101, a training course designed to teach iron point pilots the basics of competitive dog fighting in Star Citizen. My name is Kazuka and in this video we're going to be going over the basics of flight. We'll be covering pitch, yaw, strafe directions, the difference between modes, the principles of roll aim, and effective engagement ranges.
(00:44) We'll start by going over pitch and your. Pitch is when you pull up and down, and your is when you pull left and right. Our pitch and your rates are increased when boosting. So, you want to hold boost through maneuvers to achieve the maximum pitch rate or your rate. Our pitch rate is significantly better than our your rate, so we want to be pitching onto the target when aiming.
(01:11) More on this later. Star Citizen uses a six degrees of freedom flight model. That means there are six strafe directions your ship can travel in. forwards, backwards, left, right, up, and down. Forward is your strongest strafe in terms of acceleration, then side strafs, followed by up strafe. Down strafe is significantly weaker, and finally back strafe is the weakest.
(01:41) We can observe this by looking at how many G's we're pulling when accelerating in a direction. So here we're going to boost forward and look at the G's on the right hand side of my screen. When we boost forward at the Gladius, we hit the maximum G's possible. I'm just going to slow down again. And you'll see that actually going backwards with boost, I'm only hitting 6.6 GS.
(02:08) So our forward acceleration is significantly higher than our backwards acceleration. Now to do the same with up and down. If I go up with boost, you'll see I hit 13.7 GS. But if I go down, you see I'm only going to hit 7.1 GS. And we're just going to stop before we read out there. And then finally for side strafe, we've got 14.3 with boost.
(02:36) So overall forward is our strongest strafe direction followed by sideways and then upwards which are very comparable and then down strafe and back strafe are actually much weaker. It's important to know that you lose lateral strafes when you combine them with forward strafe. If you need to strafe quickly in one direction, let up on the throttle.
(03:00) Watch this example here. I'm going forwards at 63 ms and I'm going to strafe left and then right. Watch how fast the velocity indicator moves across my screen at this speed. That indicates that we're accelerating quickly to the left and right. Now I'm going to do the same again at full speed. With the same input, I only get about half the travel of the velocity indicator across my screen within the same period of time.
(03:30) That means my ship is moving much less to the left and the right whilst I'm traveling this quickly. Next up, modes. There are two main master modes in Star Citizen. SCM, which stands for space combat maneuvering, and navigation, often abbreviated to nav mode. SEM is your default flight mode. Your ship can regenerate its shields.
(03:54) You have full access to its weapon systems and counter measures. There are three sub modes or operator modes within SCM. One for guns, one for missiles, and one for scanning. You'll need to cycle through these modes depending on what action you want to take. Nav mode means your shields and weapon systems are disabled. You have high speed at your disposal and you can quantum travel, but you won't be able to fight.
(04:31) So, you'll usually only be using nav mode for disengaging or chasing down a target that is a long way away. Because our pitch rate is much better than our your rate, when aiming, we want to pitch onto the target to get our nose onto them as quickly as possible. We do this by rolling to orientate our ship so that the target appears above or below us rather than to the side of us.
(04:56) This is sometimes referred to as roll aim. To give you an example here, if a target was off to my right and I yorded onto the target, this is an example of your aiming, which we shouldn't be doing. What I should actually do in this situation is roll and pull my nose up onto the target, which will get my nose onto the target much more quickly.
(05:17) When attempting to kill a target, range is a very important consideration. Due to a variety of factors such as projectile velocity, spread, and weapon range, you will always deal more damage the closer you are to a target. If you shoot your guns too early, you'll be using the same amount of weapon energy to deal half as much damage.
(05:40) It's important to hold fire until you are in effective weapon range. This is typically below 800 m. Watch how long it takes me to kill my unpiloted Gladius at 1.2 km. I fired my entire weapon clip and I didn't even get the shields down. Now watch how much damage I do at 200 m. The Gladius has been destroyed and I didn't even use my entire clip. That's it for this video.
(06:25) Make sure you watch it back as many times as you need to until you understand the principles of what was discussed. And I look forward to seeing you in practice.

Dogfight Training - Raptor 101 - 3. Flying Decoupled - YouTube
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NR1UVWEFlPo

Transcript:
(00:01) [Music] Hello everyone. Welcome to Raptor 101, a training course designed to teach iron point pilots the basics of competitive dog fighting in Star Citizen. My name is Kazuka and in this video we're going to be quickly going over how decoupled flight works. By default, when you start playing Star Citizen, your ship will be in coupled mode.
(00:34) If you remember in the setting video, we turn this off by default. The reason we want to be in decoupled mode is because it gives us greater control over our ship's movement. In coupled mode, our ship's velocity will return to zero when we're not providing any inputs. The thrusters will also automatically fire to try and point our ship in the direction that our nose is pointing.
(00:56) In decoupled mode, your ship's direction of travel is locked to your last strafe input. So, for example, here we held W to travel forwards, but I've now released W, and my ship is continuing to travel on the same vector. This will allow us to rotate our ship to face the opposite direction without changing our vector or reducing our momentum.
(01:22) This is particularly useful in a dog fight as we'll often want to point our ship in a direction different to where we're actually trying to travel. Using the Crusader logo on Korea as an example, I'm going to fly forwards and prennose the logo so that it comes into view sooner than it would if I was turning my ship at the point in time that I fly past it.
(01:51) Decoupled allows for more control and smoother flight, but for new players, flying decoupled can seem very unintuitive at first. However, it's important to practice with it as it's a fundamental skill to learn. Here is a quick exercise you can do to practice controlling your ship in decoupled mode. Fly past the central pillar of Korea and try to keep your crosshair on the middle of the pillar while circling around it in pitch by gently tapping forward strafe.
(02:29) You can use down strafe to extend the circle or up strafe to tighten it. That's it for this video. Make sure you get used to decoupled mode and I'll see you in practice. [Music]

Dogfight Training - Raptor 101 - 4. Understanding the pip - YouTube
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vqb4mZPz_ho

Transcript:
(00:01) [Music] Hello everyone. Welcome to Raptor 101, a training course designed to teach Iron Point pilots the basics of competitive dog fighting in Star Citizen. My name is Kazuka and in this video we are going to be making sure you understand the pip. The pip is the little circle that appears ahead of your selected target.
(00:37) It turns green when your crosshair is over it, letting you know that the game thinks your shots will land. If you're flying with lead pip, this will generally appear ahead of the target. And with lag pip, it will be on top of the target all the time. This video will solely focus on lead pip, which is the default for Star Citizen and most commonly used option amongst competitive players.
(01:03) The PIP serves two important functions. The first and perhaps obvious one is that it helps you lead your shots so they will hit a moving target. In principle, you aim at the pip and shoot when it turns green. In practice, it's not quite so simple, but we'll get to that. The second and harder to understand function is that it allows us to visualize how our ship is traveling relative to our opponent.
(01:25) It allows us to know whether we are closing on the target, creating distance, or traveling along the same vector. If the pip is wholly over your target ship, this means the pip is neutralized and you are traveling along the same vector as your opponent. You want to neutralize the pip if you are trying to close distance.
(01:45) When the pip is covering the target, you can forward strafe to close the gap. Often there will be gaps between the pip and your opponent's ship. This means you are not currently traveling on the same vector. To neutralize the pip, you must strafe towards it. Simply put, if the pip is to the left of your opponent's ship, then strafing left will neutralize it.
(02:09) Let's slow that clip down and take a look at it again. I start with the pip in a neutral position. and I strafe around to the right. Because Chewy is stationary and I'm going right, the pip swings out to the left. As I start to strafe back into the left, the pit becomes neutralized. This time I push left from a neutral position.
(02:30) And you can see the pit swings out to the right. I then strafe back right to neutralize it. Now I strafe down and the pip travels upwards. Strafing up towards the pip neutralizes. New players will frequently try to aim just by shooting at the pip using their pitch and yaw and then find that they struggle to hit their target. This is because pitch and yaw does not determine your ship's direction of travel. This is called chasing the pip.
(03:06) You must additionally support your aim at all times with the appropriate strafe inputs. In this fight, I'm going to deliberately fight like a newer player and not use strafe directions or boost to support my aim. Look how quickly Chewy beats me. To hit our targets, we want to make sure our ship is traveling on the same vector as our opponent as much as possible.
(03:45) To avoid chasing the pip, make sure you strafe in the same direction as the pip is traveling to try and neutralize it. This combined with roll aim and boost to increase your pitch rate will mean you can land your shots much more easily. Simply put, if the pip is above the target, strafe up with boost when shooting.
(04:06) Upstrafe is a great tool for helping you land your shots because you will naturally be rolling the target into your pitch anyway. Once your target is in your pitch, roll as necessary to keep them there and try to keep the pip above the target. Be upstrafing while aiming to neutralize. In this clip, you can see that I've turned it around on Chewy by using strafe and boost to neutralize and land way more of my shots on target.
(04:33) If you're trying to create distance between yourself and the target, don't just hit back strafe to try to go backwards and get away. If the pip is neutralized, this won't create any distance. Remember, back strafe is significantly weaker than forward strafe. So your opponent will always be able to quickly close on you if they are traveling towards you on the same vector.
(04:54) Instead, look at what direction the pip is traveling and strafe opposite to it with boost. What players often refer to as backstrafing actually just means extending away from their opponent. It doesn't necessarily mean hitting the back strafe key. Watch in this example as Chewy tries to push me and I extend away by strafing opposite to the pip.
(05:37) It's important to understand that however you see the pip in relation to your target ship, your target sees the same pip behavior in relation to you. When the pip is neutralized, it's neutralized for both of you. This is important to understand as if you are trying to be evasive, you do not want to neutralize the pip in a dog fight.
(05:58) It's best to only neutralize when you have your own nose on the target and want to shoot. We'll cover evasion, extension, and pushing tactics in a later video. In conclusion, the further the pip is from the target, the harder the target is to hit and the harder you are to hit in return. When trying to land your shots, make sure you're trying to neutralize the pip with the appropriate strafe direction.
(06:24) When trying to close distance, make sure you don't just hold forward strafe unless the pip is neutral. And when trying to extend, strafe opposite to the pip. That's it for this video. It takes time to get really good at aiming, so make sure you are regularly honing your skills in practice.

Dogfight Training - Raptor 101 - 5. Evasion - YouTube
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LVnN5GMc1Rw

Transcript:
(00:01) [Music] Hello everyone. Welcome to Ruptor 101, a training course designed to teach Iron Point pilots the basics of competitive dog fighting in Star Citizen. My name is Kazuka and in this video we are going to be making sure you understand evasion. Evasion or deflection as you will sometimes hear it referred to is the act of maneuvering your ship in such a way that you can avoid being shot by your opponent.
(00:43) Knowing both when and how to evade is fundamental to being a good dog fighter. When you are nose to nose with your opponent, you are going to be trading damage and you are both going to be getting lots of shots on each other. Imagine a cone of death coming out of the front of your opponent's ship. Starting from the nose, your objective is to stay out of that cone whilst keeping them inside your own cone in order to apply damage.
(01:07) You want to move your ship away from your target's nose, both with strafs and with rolls. It's okay to pass through the cone while changing direction, but you don't want to be in it for long. You may also notice that when trying to keep up with you, your opponent over rolls or travels in the wrong direction.
(01:25) This is when you can push in to try to get a better position on them. A good position in master modes is one where you can apply damage with no ability for your opponent to return fire. In this clip, watch as every time I see my opponent bring his nose onto me, I push in a different direction to evade his cone and try to get behind him.
(02:00) Now, let's take a look at what this looks like from Chewy's perspective. In these clips, you will see my ship is constantly moving in front of Chewy. It's always moving around his nose, across him, but never lingers in the center of his screen for long. At times, I'll push past him with forward strafe to try and hold a position from which I can safely deal damage while receiving none in return.
(02:21) This means the damage trade is significantly in my favor. This is done with a constant combination of both left and right strafe, roll, and up strafe. If there is any moment in the fight where you aren't strafing, you likely aren't evading enough. It's important not to hold any one direction for too long. If you do, your movement becomes flat and predictable.
(02:43) The direction of your movement needs to be changing constantly throughout the fight. However, if you find yourself with a significant lead over your opponent, you might decide to focus on neutralizing, aiming, and landing your shots in order to finish them off more quickly. It's okay to take some damage if necessary to secure the win.
(03:01) Although, the healthier you can keep your ship, the better. Shields regen, but Hall doesn't. You can practice your momentum control and evasion by strafing around an unpiloted gladius or landing platform. Try to keep the Gladius under your crosshair as much as possible whilst moving across and around its nose with varying strafe inputs. That's it for this video.
(03:23) Make sure you think about maintaining your evasiveness while fighting and keep regularly honing your skills and practice.

Dogfight Training - Raptor 101 - 6. Approaching a fight - YouTube
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pugp9kK6Ezk

Transcript:
(00:01) [Music] Hello everyone. Welcome to Raptor 101, a training course designed to teach iron point pilots the basics of competitive dog fighting in Star Citizen. My name is Kazuka and in this video we are going to be combining all of the skills we've gone over in the series so far and putting them into practice.
(00:36) The first thing we're going to look at is the merge. You are merged with your target when you are flying along the same vector close to one another in effective weapon range. In a jewel, this is often a formality. Both pilots will approach each other headon on the same vector. But in a team fight or against an opponent who is not flying their ship towards you, it becomes harder.
(01:00) Your goal is to merge with your opponent as close to them as possible. The closer you are when you start applying damage, the more effective you will be at killing the target. Remember, shooting from 1 km away will do almost nothing, but shooting at 300 m away will kill them very quickly. A common mistake people make is carrying too much speed into the merge.
(01:20) Meaning they overshoot their opponent or they don't anticipate where their opponent's ship will actually be, leaving them behind the target outside of effective weapon range. A good tip is to aim where you think your opponent's ship is going to be, not where it actually is. If you are merging to help a teammate, think about actually aiming towards your teammate, not the enemy.
(01:43) This is because the enemy will often be pushing towards where your teammate currently is. In this example, I'm looking at where my teammate Herszog is as much as my enemy. I position the TVI where I expect my opponent to be, and I slow down as much as possible so that I don't overshoot. Again, in this example, I'm aiming for my teammate more than I am the target.
(02:32) In a one versus one situation, you need to harness the skills learned in the understanding the pip and evasion videos. Your goal is to deal as much damage to your opponent as possible while receiving as little as possible in return. You do this by trying to get into your opponent's slot. This is the position where you can see their pancake, the largest flat area of their ship where they can't get their nose onto you.
(02:56) You'll be entering into a circle fight where you and your opponent are trying to rotate around each other. You will often find yourself nose to nose as you'll be circling at a similar rate. Remember circling the Korea station pillar from the decoupled flight video? You are now trying to do that to a moving target. If you find yourself jousting or blowing past your opponent, it's because both of you are carrying too much speed into the turns and you need to slow down.
(03:29) For this reason, it's common for newer pilots to find keeping their opponents close difficult. Remember, it's important to not hold forward strafe constantly. This will only bring you close to the target when the pip is neutral. And if you recall from the basic flight mechanics video, you also lose your ability to strafe in other directions when forward strafing, limiting your evasiveness.
(03:53) A good tip for closing distance is to roll your ship so the pip is positioned above the target and up strafe towards the pip while your ship has some forward momentum. Keep rolling and upstrafing to keep the pip above them while you close distance. Another common mistake new players make is shooting too early. Hold your weapon energy until you're in effective range.
(04:18) Use your roll to keep your target in your pitch so you can utilize your ship's greater pitch rate and support your aim by strafing into the pip. Also remember to try and vary your strafe movement to be evasive and keep the pip alternating for your opponent. Look for opportunities to push close to the target with forward strafe only when the pip is neutralized.
(04:40) When you are very close, you can look for an opportunity to push past your opponent's wing and try to get into their slot. Well and good there. That was uh that was rough. There are any number of decisions you might need to make throughout a fight. Target prioritization, when to boost or try to conserve boost, when to deliberately close or extend distance, when to play evasive, when to take the damage trait, and also when to run.
(05:12) These are things best learned through experience. There is no better teacher than time spent in the cockpit. Let's look at this example fight from the PU and think about some of the decisions that I made. I find myself in a 1v2 situation against two reasonably competent pilots. I know the Gladius has a friend with him, so I approach the fight cautiously.
(05:34) I pop noise as we engage just to make it harder for the second ship to missile lock me. Missiles can be very unpredictable on the PU and often don't behave as expected. So definitely something I'm worried about. As the second target comes in, I deliberately extend away and create distance to both mitigate damage and to try and stretch them out.
(06:05) You can see that the saber pilot hasn't merged with me very effectively. And so I'm able to maintain distance from him. You can see them still shooting me at 1.8 km away, but we know that any hits they land at that range will do almost nothing. As the Gladius pushes in, you can see there is a big gap between him and his teammate.
(06:30) I bought myself some time to shoot dead frag and have no fear of taking extra damage in return. I plan to avoid shooting the saber. It has more HP and only slightly more DPS than a gladius. It will take significantly longer to kill and I can probably just run from it more easily later. You notice Deadp is rolling a lot here, but his pip isn't really moving.
(06:53) We call this a bob roll. Don't do this. Rolling on its own doesn't actually make you evasive, unless you're also using a stra input to push your ship in a new direction. The saber is in now, so I'm in trouble. I also haven't done a great job of managing my weapon energy. If I had conserved more ammo for this moment, I might have finished off dead frag more quickly and taken less damage in return.
(07:17) At this point, I should have disengaged to a safe distance and regen my shields and boost. You'll note how low I am on resources. With no shields, whole damage, and no boost, I should never be taking the head on with the saber here. But I get cocky. This is an example of a poor decision.
(07:36) I can't push the saber, and I have to scurry away with my tail between my legs. Luckily, I just about get out and travel to Yela to repair. Let's recap the main points. Don't carry too much speed into the fight. Let go of forward strafe. Don't shoot too early and save your weapon energy for effective ranges. Close distance by strafing towards the pip.
(08:09) Roll your opponent into pitch and use strafe to support your aim. Don't chase the pip and stay evasive by alternating your strafe movements and roll directions. That's it for the Raptor 101 series. Hopefully, this has equipped you with the basic knowledge you need to take the next step in learning more about Star Citizen PvP.
(08:27) For more in-depth guides on specific topics, I'd recommend checking out Jonathan Winter's channel. There's a link in the description. Thanks for watching.

